Add Website for VEBA (#117)
vmware-samples/vcenter-event-broker-appliance: docs/kb/use-eventspec.md

---
layout: docs
toc_id: use-eventspec
title: VMware Event Broker Appliance - Architecture
description: VMware Event Broker Appliance Architecture
permalink: /kb/eventspec
cta:
 title: Get Started
 description: Explore the capabilities that the VMware Event Router enables
 actions:
    - text: Get started quickly by deploying from the [community-sourced, pre-built functions](/examples)
    - text: Deploy a function using these [instructions](use-functions) and learn how to [write your own function](contribute-functions).
---

# The Event Specification

> The event payload structure used by the VMware Event Broker Appliance has been significantly enriched since the beginning. It mostly follows the [CloudEvents](https://github.com/cloudevents/sdk-go/blob/master/pkg/cloudevents/eventcontext_v1.go){:target="_blank"} specification (v1), deviating only in some small cases (type definitions). The current data content type which is sent as payload when invoking a function is JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The event payload structure used by the VMware Event Broker Appliance follows the [CloudEvents](https://github.com/cloudevents/sdk-go/blob/master/pkg/cloudevents/eventcontext_v1.go){:target="_blank"} v1 specification for cross-cloud portability. The current data content type which is sent as payload to a supported event processor is JSON.
```

> The following example shows the event structure (trimmed for better readability):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows the event structure sent as JSON to a supported event processor (trimmed for better readability):
```

```json
{
  "id": "08179137-b8e0-4973-b05f-8f212bf5003b",

>   "source": "https://10.0.0.1:443/sdk",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "source": "https://vcenter-01:443/sdk",
```

  "specversion": "1.0",
  "type": "com.vmware.event.router/event",
  "subject": "VmPoweredOffEvent",
  "time": "2020-02-11T21:29:54.9052539Z",
  "data": {
    "Key": 9902,
    "ChainId": 9895,
    [.....]
  },
  "datacontenttype": "application/json"
}
```

> > **Note:** This is not the event as emitted by vCenter. The appliance, using the OpenFaaS vcenter-connector, wraps the corresponding vCenter event (as seen in "data") into its own event structure.

Reviewer: Can you please this delete paragraph?

Author: done

`id:` The unique ID ([UUID](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122){:target="_blank"}) of the event

`source:` The vCenter emitting the embedded vSphere event (FQDN resolved when available)

`specversion:` The event specification the appliances uses (can be used for schema handling)

> `type:` The canonical name of the event in "." dot notation (including the emitter, i.e. OpenFaaS vcenter-connector) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`type:` The canonical name of the event class in "." dot notation 
```
